When I gave up on religion,
there was such an emptiness
because I really wanted
to believe in God my whole life.
I wanted to believe.
“Where were you?
You knew I was looking for you, God.”
And I felt abandoned.
My love for photography
goes way back to about age six,
when I got my first little Kodak Instamatic.
I just thought it was a wonderful way
to document the world.
Dad was very much
a give-back-to-the-community kind of guy.
My mom,
her biggest quality is empathy.
So growing up with that,
I saw the best way to be helpful to people
was to become a priest,
because I thought
that those were the best people
in the best position
to be the most help.
When I was 18,
I went to the college seminary,
and that was the road to the priesthood.
I left there angry
because we were all going
through the motions
of ritual.
There was no authenticity.
After a few years,
I entered a monastery in the United States
as a counselor-in-training,
working with alcoholic priests.
But again,
it reinforced my disappointment
with the church
because here was the big secret.
Here was where all the troubled priests went.
I felt that everything I had believed in
had been a lie.
I tried Zen Buddhism;
I tried Tibetan Buddhism.
I went through all of the churches,
and there was nothing there.
Nothing.
And I said, “We’re done.”
By this point, I had a real edge.
I was a very, very angry person.
I felt that the world had done me over.
I noticed that was reflected
in my photography.
There were less and less people
in the pictures
and more and more buildings and objects.
As a psychology professor,
as a counseling professor,
my mission was accomplished
if my students could leave that class
and they had learned
how to think for themselves
—and not just to take in
what they were being sold.
I had a thing about organizations
lying to people.
I’d been a student of all sorts of learning,
but there was always something missing.
When Tom asked me to study with him,
I did feel intimidated
because here you had a man
who was a professional in the secular world;
he was a teacher at college
and a psychologist.
So, to me, that was a challenge.
I had a big old notebook of questions,
and he sat beside me.
He said,
“So you have some questions.”
And I said,
“Yep. Here we go.”
“How does your organization
handle child sexual abuse?
“How does the money work?
“What’s the check and balance?
Where’s the transparency?”
And what I noticed, what he always did,
he answered them from Scripture.
This was revolutionary in my mind
because these were
not just some institution’s views
or some individual’s views.
This was the very authority of God.
You know, studying the Bible
changed my life for the better
—completely.
I love the diversity of the congregation.
I’m learning so much
about how we’re all the same.
I have a lot more pictures of people.
When people lose hope,
they’ve lost everything.
And by studying the Bible,
you learn why there is suffering
and why people die.
You learn that this whole world
is not spiraling out of control.
Coming to have a real, personal relationship
with the Supreme Sovereign of the universe
gives you hope.
I love what I’m still learning.
I learn every day.
And that’s the difference:
I have confidence in what I’m learning,
confidence that it’s the truth.